---
Layout:
Title: "JavaScript_functional progarmaming"
Date: 2020-07-17
Categories:
---
# Introduction

Wow, the word sounds so prestigious "Functional Programming", but I guess there's no need to fear the word but try and respect the options that the style gives us to write our code in a more maintainable way.
## The body

A lot of people criticize the idea of functional programming and many favor object orientation and undermine the power of functional programming. Writing javaScript has not been easier since the introduction of es6 and the use of anonymous functions as compared to vanilla JS or es5's primitive writing style. The style of FP(functional programming) is very good at making our js programs maintainable and not being prone to bugs since you can access and tackle any problem in the program much more easily.

primitive writing is the step by step writing more like declaring variables and giving functionality in each step and do not get me wrong when I say that, that style of writing can cause your code to be DRY, so drier than lemon juice and full of tautologies that are unnecessary and it can be very daunting when you have to maintain a huge program using the primitive style. But FP has improved this act by making functions or build in js methods like map(), filter(), replace(), etc as opposed to the use of for loops and the famous I iterator that perform certain logics and do certain things that might be easier to change and maintain if any future tweaks require improvement or change of functionality. That's one of the good and advantageous uses of FP. 
### Conclusion
                
Functional programming is much easier to write and understand, I usually prefer using FP rather than OOp(object orientated programming), but it differs and depends on the situations that you face on whether the perfect use-case might be FP nor OOP.   